# Environmental Analysis of the Greater Los Angeles Area

## Introduction

The Greater Los Angeles Area has a reputation for having one of the
worst air pollution in the country. This is a big concern for the
large population that live in these area due to its health
consequences. Diseases such as Asthma, respiratory infections, lung
cancer, and other cardiovascular ones are known to be caused to
the exposure to poor air quality.

However, what are the causes for having such a poor air quality? is
the problem related to the high number of freeways and volume of
traffic? what are the areas that impacted the most by the pollution?
are there any socioeconomic factors related?

Fortunetaly, the [Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment
(OEHHA)](https://oehha.ca.gov/) has collected an extensive dataset
with includes exposure indicators, environmental effects, and
socioeconomic indicators with the purpose of identifying and adjusting
policies for the communities burdened by pollution in the state of
California. This dataset can help us answer specific questions related
to Los Angeles. Let's start describing general information about the
metro and its population.

## Los Angeles

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/embed?mid=1FL3R-M6FCh59L4mwaEM4UnM1-ATXDnUu" width="640" height="480"></iframe>

The Greater Los Angeles Area is one of the fastest-growing regions in
the US, that contains five counties in Southern California: Los
Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, and Ventura. Based on the
OEHHA dataset, its total population is 17,876,950. Of the total, 55%
people are in Los Angeles county, 17% of people in Orange County, 12%
of people in Riverside, 11% of people in San Bernardino, and 5% in the
county of Ventura.

![population distribution](images/county_population.png)
